well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again remember remember the 5th of
November
gunpowder treason and plot in the US we
know that but do we have anything ideal
or remembering probably not now those in
the UK probably don't need this history
lesson but to me this has always been
interesting because it shows how a
symbol of resistance gets created and a
lot of times those who rally around that
symbol may not really know what it means
so Queen Elizabeth the first was on the
throne and just say she had some issues
with the Catholic Church
she was excommunicated in 1570 and she
in many ways engaged in a lot of
repression of Catholics in in her under
her rule now when she died James the
first took over and a lot of people a
lot of Catholics thought that was going
to be the end of it they thought that he
was going to introduce some reforms and
they were wrong he didn't he didn't in
fact he expelled the priests as well so
when they realized they weren't going to
get a reprieve there were a lot of
unsuccessful attempts on him and then in
May of 1603 Guy Fawkes also known as
Guido met with Robert Catesby and some
other people Catesby was the leader by
the way not that guy I think they met in
a bar and they hatched this plot and
they were gonna take out parliament like
all of it they rented a cellar
underneath Parliament
and they planned on a day that James the
first was going to be there his eldest
son was going to be there as well as the
House of Lords and the House of Commons
pretty ambitious and then once the boom
had boomed Catesby and the other guys
well they were going to start a Catholic
uprising they were gonna snatch James's
daughter and marry her off to a Catholic
put put a Catholic back on the throne
that was the plan but on October 26th an
anonymous letter warned somebody don't
go and that tipped off the authorities
that there was a plot maybe maybe there
are some people who believe the
authorities already knew and they were
just letting it go forward up until
right before to further create animosity
towards Catholics we'll probably never
know the truth there now Fox was and and
and company all of them they ceased to
be shortly thereafter the November the
5th the some of them when they were
about to be captured and some of them
later November 5th
he's not the hero of that day he's
burned in effigy that kids will
trick-or-treat with him take him around
their their effigy of them and say a
penny for the guy the current version
that we know in the United States does
not come from history that's its image
rehabilitation comes from a comic book V
for Vendetta which was turned into the
movie that's where the image comes from
in the US as the symbol of resistance
and yeah I guess it was I guess he was a
resistance
today but it's probably not one that
Occupy Wall Street or anonymous would
really choose to be associated with
backing the Catholic Church probably not
but at some point Guy Fawkes and that
mask became more than history became
something else became symbol a symbol of
resistance there are a lot of things
throughout history that have happened
like this a whole bunch of symbols that
we may not really understand the meaning
of but they're all around us they're all
around us and it's not just symbols of
resistance it's everything this is
something I've always found interesting
remember the main it's not talking about
the state Tippecanoe and Tyler too these
slogans these symbols these ideas they
resonate for whatever reason most times
they resonate if we don't even know why
it seems funny that the reality is for
Americans Guy Fawkes Day is not about
Guy Fawkes that mask is not about him
it's about a comic book character and
somebody uniting the faceless masses
against an oppressive government
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night